Hello, everyone, and this lecture will talk about means what is Maine mean is actually a function.
We will talk about functions, but it's you can it's a block of code from when the execution of the
program to time.
OK, every C C++ program starts executing with me.
And there is exactly one main function, and at the end of the mean, you will often find return zero.
So return zero basically denote the exit from the mean, and zero be used to denote the successful execution
of the mean OK.
So if you execute a program on it, then you might see something like the program finished with the
return value zero.
That means, OK, this we reached this line of code.
That means everything that was written in this block of gold was successfully executed.
OK?
But it may happen that you might have some error in your input on.
Your program might crash in between, maybe because of some reason like and a lot of memory you have
used or something because I've done in that case, the return value would be something else.
OK, so in that case, the return value would be something else if your program crashes in between.
OK, because of some reason, to get an exception comes up.
You divide a number with zero or you consume a lot of memory, so it may happen.
OK, so your program may crash in between.
And in that case, the program will not return zero.
And in most cases, when your program is going to execute till the end, it will always return a value
zero.
So you can use return five returns, but zero is is the convention means you'll get the return.
Zero means the successful execution of the mean.
Oh, you can also see that is something that is right, denies Indomie.
So why do we write it as a main reason is.
We are returning Deja, that is zero.
OK, so whenever you define a function, we have the name of the function that is me.
OK?
And before the name of the function, you have the return type.
What type of data?
This function is going to return.
This is known as a return date.
The return type of mean is because it returns.
Indeed, it is zero.
OK.
This is the point from where your code will start getting executed until this particular point of deleted
the curly brackets.
So everything is part of the means.
All your logic or all the work that you want to do should go into these brackets, OK?
So that is what I wanted to talk about.
Mean.
And there are few more things that we will discuss.
The most common way of defining the mean is like this.
This is the boilerplate for me.
You will be writing this code in almost every program.
And.
And in some cases, when you might need to build a command line application, or maybe you want to write
a C++ program that runs through a command line and that processes some excel files that processes some
images?
OK.
And you want to give the names of the files that you want to process when you're executing this code,
OK?
In that case, you can accept something which is known as a command line argument.
So this is an example of.
This is a parameter that will accept the file name when you want to run this through a command line.
So right now, it does not require so we will skip it if needed.
We will add a video for the scene, which will depict you the demo of how to use a program by a command
line or we are not going to go into the details right now.
One thing to note is Maine is not a although you have the right, meaning every program.
It's not a for keyword.
And.
Man is not predefined, it is pretty clear what is the meaning of definition, was this declaration?
Do two important things.
OK?
So whenever you create functions or right now, we have not discussed about functions a lot, but function
as.
Bunch of lines of code that I've been inside to company, for example, you want to say, I have a factory
function.
OK?
And this returns an integer.
So whenever you create a function, this can be divided into two parts.
One part is known as declaracion this part of the function.
This is known as declaration.
We're just saying that there would be a function whose name would be affected.
So we generally do the declaration like this and like the return type.
Followed by the name and any parameters that dysfunction is going to accept.
We can just write this line of the code.
And this tells the compiler, OK, somewhere in the code that would be a function whose name would be
factory look.
And later on, you can define, OK, this is my function and this is how this function performs, then
case of mean.
The code, the definition is not there.
The definition is not the only the declaration, but is already there.
OK, so intimate.
This boat is already dead and what we need to do, we also need to define what would go inside this
mandate.
So we need to define this part is already declared OK.
And what we need to do, we need to supply the goal that should go inside me.
OK, so we need to supply what is going to happen when you were going to run the mine.
OK, so that is why we are saying that this function is not redefined.
That means the body of the good anything that is written inside curly brackets that is not defined,
but it is predicted, OK.
And we we generally will not see this declaration in the boilerplate code.
So we directly write the entire definition with the Indomie and the way it works.
So in C++, our code is linked against the small time time library.
OK, that constitute the true starting point of your program.
So whenever you run a C++ program, there is a library that constitutes the true starting point of the
program.
And in this small library, a function is called the function name is mean, OK?
So the mean is actually hardcoded.
It's not a key, but it's a function that has been declared and that is, it is hardcoded in the library
or given every program will start, it will always start from me.
So now, whatever Goldberg's because we supply our gold inside the mine, I'm also known as function
definition.
That is what I was trying to tell you.
Anything that you write inside the body of the function.
OK, so this part?
Anything that we would contribute, the body of the function and whatever you supply hit that goal gets
executed because a function call has been hard coded, OK?
If you're very new to programming, you will understand this concept in more detail.
Once we will cover the topic of function, OK, again, because this was slightly important that our
your code book it always start executing from it.
So that is all what you need to know at this moment.
Once we dive deeper into the functions, you will understand these dumps declaration definition of the
function function.
Go in more detail.
Look to hold it for now if you are still confused with some of the terms, but that's OK.
OK, so that's all for this video.
See you in the next lecture!